# My review for "Salt Sugar Fat: How the Food Giants Hooked Us"

I've finally finished reading the [book](https://www.amazon.com/Salt-Sugar-Fat-Giants-Hooked/dp/0812982193) "Salt Sugar Fat: How the Food Giants Hooked Us" by Michael Moss and it's a book I would highly recommend for anyone who has to buy food in grocery stores or order from restaurants within the United States.

As evident from the title, the book talks about the roles of salt, sugar and (saturated) fat in creating cheap yet highly-addictive foods that lead to grim health consequences (obesity, diabetes, high blood pressure and others). This was definitely interesting and somewhat eye-opening (I had no idea that salt is produced in dozens of shapes and sizes specific to a particular type of food it's used in), but for me the book was more about two other notions: people and (relatively) free market capitalism.

People interviewed by the author were of four kinds: food industry execs, scientists working within the food industry, "external" scientists and food/consumer rights activists. It was quite sad though expected to see how the former two groups of people rationalized and justified (often through denial to themselves) their decisions and research that led to the national health catastrophe(-s). Something along the lines of "I was just trying to create more jobs for my own home state of Wisconsin" and other nonsense like this. At the same time, even the food industry veterans who switched sides after decades working for their companies did not really evoke much pity: it felt a little bit like scientists working on the Manhattan Project who then turned anti-nuclear activists, they really should have known better from the beginning. Needless to say, food industry veterans hardly ever eat the food produced by their companies.

Now to the free market capitalism. Food industry is one of the examples where we arrived to the Nash equilibrium that is actually very hurtful for people. Sure, the companies would go at lengths to try to convince the public that it's processed foods that allow people from all the economic backgrounds to get enough calories quickly and cheaply, but I honestly doubt the extent to which such statements are true. So, the government regulations are clearly necessary. At the same time, the said regulations are very slow and painful to introduce for the reasons of lobbying (do you know why there are no nutrition labels on meat? the answer will surprise you). But sometimes, the regulations and government subsidies worsen the situation even further (that's what happened when dairy farms got significant subsidies for their marketing campaigns, which lead to vast overproduction of cheese, which is now put everywhere in obscene amounts and very unhealthy forms).

It's hard not to draw the parallels between the food industry crisis which is ongoing since at least 1980s and the modern-day crisis around social networks and, more generally, crowdsourced content on the Internet. I wonder if the food conundrum taught us some lessons we can hope to apply here.

Overall, it's a really great book which should be a required reading for high school students. Of course, as most of non-fiction, it's somewhat painful to read, but it's really worth it.
